Communication guide: overview, blogs, podcast, social media, presentation, lay summary chapters (#1929)
alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way: book/website/communication/lay-summaries/lay-summaries-personal-stories.md

(cm-lay-summaries-personal-stories)=
# Personal Stories - Lay Summaries

## Emma Karoune - Making Palaeoecology More Accessible

Dr Emma Karoune is a Research Associate at The Alan Turing Institute and Historic England focusing on Open Science and [Phytolith](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phytolith) Research.
She is currently leading a project concerning the FAIRification of phytolith data.

Find out more about her work from the links below:
* [FAIR Phytoliths Project Website](https://open-phytoliths.github.io/FAIR-phytoliths/)
* Blog - [The Open Archaeobotanist](https://ekaroune.github.io/The-Open-Archaeobotanist/)
* Twitter - [ekaroune](https://twitter.com/ekaroune)

> We would like to thank Emma for answering our interview questions about her work with [PalaeoSIG](https://www.britishecologicalsociety.org/membership-community/special-interest-groups/palaeoecology-group/), who are the special interest group for palaeoecology at the British Ecological Society.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We would like to thank Emma for answering our interview questions about her work with [PalaeoSIG](https://www.britishecologicalsociety.org/membership-community/special-interest-groups/palaeoecology-group/), a special interest group for palaeoecology at the British Ecological Society.
```

My collaborator and I opted to work in Google docs so that we could start documents for the first draft of each lay summary separately but we could also then go on to collaborate in real-time to edit and discuss our writing using the built-in editing and commenting features.

Here is one of the lay summaries I wrote with my workshop partner Nick Loughlin - [New evidence to assess the 5 reasons Elm almost disappeared](https://palaeosigbes.wordpress.com/2020/11/18/new-evidence-to-assess-the-5-reasons-elm-almost-disappeared/).

Once the workshop was over, we were asked if anyone wanted to help with editing and publishing the lay summaries.
Some of us then formed a group of copy editors and summary editors, again to work in pairs to finalise each lay summary every week for release on the project website.
The aim was to release one lay summary a week for a whole year.

**3. What impact do you think your lay summaries are making to your research/project/community?**

Althea told me that the WordPress site has between c.80 and 530 views per month, depending on how many posts we have.

> As to what impact they're having, She is not sure how to measure this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As to what impact they're having, she is not sure how to measure this.
```

Althea commented that they didn't set out to be an 'influencer' looking for a high hit rate, rather more of a support mechanism, point of connection and community resource for palaeoscientists working in various disciplines and sectors.
For instance, providing an opportunity for blogs by Early Career Researchers who might be unsure about offering one to a 'bigger' organisation, like a journal.

**4. What tools/software do you use most in your lay summaries?**

> The Palaeoecology special interest group used Google drive to run the project as Google docs were used to write collaboratively and Google sheets were used to coordinate the lay summaries and the editing and publishing progress.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Palaeoecology special interest group used Google Drive to run the project as Google Docs were used to write collaboratively and Google Sheets were used to coordinate the lay summaries and the editing and publishing progress.
```
